# Election-prediction-twitter

Twitter has risen in popularity in the last ten years and has created the great possibility of free advertisement of personal ideas of everyone. What's more, around 500 million tweets have been sent on Twitter. Twitter's data records have helped many analytical companies and academics to obtain their target data sets and support their topics. 

The previous studying have proven the solid basement for that Twitter data can be used for an election prediction problem, and sentiment analysis should be included in the method. In this thesis project, one special point is that using twitter relationship to form one retweet network and use network metrics as features to predict. 

In this thesis paper, I present a detailed method to predict election results using twitter behavior data. This paper also describes the preprocessing steps needed in order to achieve better classification performance. Three kinds of features have been created, including behavior features, retweet network features and sentiment features. I have showed the experiments for each type of features and compared performance difference for multiple machine learning classifiers. The best model in this paper has achieved accuracy at 91\% with voting classifier of GBDT, Adaboost and logistical regression. Next, a comparison experiment has been made to select proper time windows. Community detection and analysis have been showed in the experiment discussion. I conclude with a detailed discussion on various feature selections and model performance for predicting real-world outcomes. 
